um so this this time we'll be talking
about models of dialogue this is a very
kind of popular thing nowadays and I
think there's a lot of maybe a
reasonable number of people here who are
working on this either for a project or
or for their normal research so if
there's any interesting things that I'm
missing here I'd love if people in the
room introduced introduced things I know
I didn't cover all the papers so there's
something I do know about that aren't
covered in the slides just for for
brevity's sake but I'd be happy to talk
about other things as well so there's
lots there's lots of different types of
dialogues that you can handle with
computers so I guess you can kind of
classify this into who is talking human
human versus human computer all mainly
be talking about human computer
dialogues in other words building
systems that talk with people but human
human dialog analysis is also something
interesting that a lot of people are you
know working on I won't have time to
talk about it this time but it's an
interesting topic as well you can also
have one on one dialogue versus
multi-party dialogues etc so multiplayer
D dialects you have multiple people
talking I'll mainly be talking about
one-on-one dialogues where you have one
human in one computer talking also why
are they talking so you can have
test-driven dialogue where you actually
want to get something done or just chat
based dialogue where the main task of
the dialogue is just to have you talk
and be happy with talking and if you
think about the dialogue systems and
everybody's using nowadays like Syria or
Cortana or something like that which one
of these do you think they fall in under
desk I would argue that they have both
so like one of one of the things that
made Siri as far as I know when it first
came out was an entirely rule-based
system but one of the reasons why it was
so attractive was because they had these
people like look at all of the things
that people would ask Siri and group
them into categories and then write
funny responses for all of them so that
had nothing to do with making a
particular task but if you say Siri will
you marry me you know coming up with a
clever response is a good way to get
people interested in your system in
using it so um but on the other hand it
can do things like like order things for
you or something I don't know if people
have heard about the story of a thing
where a little girl said I think it was
C read by me a dollhouse or no sorry
Alexa by me a dollhouse and because like
one-click purchasing was turned on a a
dollhouse was delivered to their house
did people hear about this so this
became a big news story in Seattle so
then on the TV the TV reporter said the
TV reporter said so the little girl said
Siri buy me a dollhouse and of course
sorry Alexa Alexa buy me a dollhouse so
of course all the Alexus in the greater
Seattle area responded to this and
purchased doll houses so we we need to
be careful when we're building our
systems to think about potential
complications like that it's a moral
story ended
apparently there's a computational
ethics class at CMU next semester so you
can hear all about those implications
okay
so first I'll first I'll talk about
models of chat based dialogue I think a
lot of people are very interested in
this nowadays and probably not because
this is more useful than tasks
open dialogue it's just that test-driven
dialogue is quite a bit harder well chat
dialogue not saying it's easy but it's
it's a little bit easier to get started
on so I think people are currently very
interested in this and maybe over the
next couple of years test-driven
dialogue will will become more popular
as people get more familiar with how to
apply neural networks to the dialogue
systems in chat driven dialogue systems
you can kind of I guess in all dialogue
systems but also particularly chat drove
in dialogue systems you can kind of
separate them into two paradigms one of
the two paradigms is generation based
models so the idea of generation based
models is you can generate any arbitrary
string of texts so that's taken input
and and generate a new output the good
thing about these is if you want to be
creative if you want to come up with
with new things that nobody has ever
said before then a generation based
model is the way to go
there's also retrieval based models and
the idea of retrieval based models is
you take an input and you find the most
appropriate output out of the outputs
that you already have um this is good if
you want to be safe or at least
relatively safe if you think about it
putting a chatbot in front of a person
is kind of dangerous if you're a company
because if your chat bot says something
it's like your company is saying it so
if the google chat bot says something
racist then it's like Google is saying
something racist if the Microsoft chat
pod says something racist and it's like
Microsoft is saying something racist so
um the evil based models is you know
it's never going to generate anything it
hasn't seen before or it has that isn't
in the training data so you can kind of
filter the training data ahead of time
to make sure that so first generation
based models the first generation based
model
um okay so I realized looking at the
slide that I should clarify so before
2011 of course there was lots of work on
dialog systems in previous dialogue
systems it was pretty common to have
something like a template where you
would decide what you wanted to say and
then you would fill in words in the
template there were more complicated
things with natural language generation
etc when I see a generation base model
this model was a model that had no
concept of templates and would just
generate things based on basically a
machine translation model so you take an
off-the-shelf machine translation system
and this at this point it was a phrase
based machine translation system you
would basically and I get off at five is
the target language and you would you
would use this translation model to do
this I talked about translation models
before in the sequence to sequence
models part one important thing that
people realized already in 2011 before
the sequence of sequence models is that
dialogue generation is much harder than
regular machine translation because
dialogue generation has things like this
which is like so you can see that really
there's no direct correspondence between
this and in machine translation you'll
get idioms like kicked the bucket
for example means die that you need to
have kind of a thing where you just map
it all at the same time but in dialogue
there's much more indirect like
translations between between things so
in order to make this action
we were if they had to do a lot of
filtering of the the rules that you can
use etc then in 2015
basically three places simultaneously
came up with the idea of applying
sequence sequence models to dialog
response generation and like other
translation tasks dialog response
generation can be done with encoder
decoders it can be done with encoder
decoders with attention it can be done
with with others so the the simplest one
I think is Sheng at all where they
basically just translated from the
previous utterance and you can get
things like I guess in Chinese so the
original is Chinese but if you want
conveying what I see all the Chinese
people looking so you can look at the
original high fever attacks me every New
Year's Day get well soon and stay
healthy again one more year a grateful
to my group so happy getting old now
kind of gets no mercy that's a pretty
mean dialogue system and then you also
get things like we should go out with
some cute guys to enjoy a great outing
and such a nice weather it is a nice
weather which is not super not super
interesting response it's picking up on
the nice weather etc so you can see it
does a reasonable job but it's not a
it's not perfect by any means but
because dialogue and translation are
very different it's not trivial to apply
like encoder/decoder models to dialogue
response generation directly um and i'm
pointing out a few other problems here
if there are people here who have done
dialogue and think there are more
problems after the three that I
mentioned here I'd love I'd love you to
point them out I'm sure there are but
one is dialogue is more dependent on
global coherence
so um considering only a single previous
utterance will lead to a locally
coherent but globally incoherent output
so you will seem maybe crazy because
like the thing set you said last time
you have absolutely no effect on what
you said this time so it'll be your
dialogue won't make very much sense so
it's necessary to consider more context
so an example of this is they basically
had an encoder decoder model that
encoded both the contacts and the
message and then considered both of them
in contrast to this is in contrast to
machine translation so in machine
translation context can be useful this
is a very interesting paper if you're
interested in context of machine
translation basically they took a
state-of-the-art machine translation
model at the time and applied it and
realized that human translators without
context are just as bad as machine
translation while human translators with
contexts are much better than machine
translations so they showed that context
can be useful in translation and then in
contrast paper that says context really
isn't very useful in news translations
so the jury is very much out for
sequence of sequence models for MT but
for dialogue I think almost nobody would
argue that this is not necessary um so
one solution is to use a standard
architecture with more context so um so
the cydonia Dahl paper sorry I mentioned
this one so I do early but basically
they encoded both the context and the
previous utterance venules it all took
this one step further they just took in
in a very big LS TM and encoded all of
the dialogue context up until this point
so they just memorize the whole dialogue
and that allows them to
generate dialogues that look a little
bit like this um they use customer
service dialogue so customer service
dialogues our dialogues were you you
basically asked questions about your
about whatever problem that you're
having and they use this to train so you
get hi hello could you please let me
know what are the operating systems
you're using I'm using Linux okay it was
in the sslvpn on which you stated it was
broken please check your logged in with
the court network what is the error that
you are running which is kind of kind of
sounds like something like customer
support I'm seeing an error related to
begin what is the error message that you
are getting it goes all the way to the
end and it's a little bit strange but
eventually somehow this Elysium manages
to resolve the customer service query I
wouldn't suggest deploying this on your
actual customers because you might loose
them very quickly but for the purpose of
writing a paper this does seem to
actually be able to capture some long
distance dependencies just with this
info by iOS since then there have been
much more sophisticated methods that
people have been using one is the
hierarchical encoder/decoder model so
the idea is basically because we want to
capture very long dependencies between
things we will want to have an utterance
level RNN Vectren allows us to track the
overall dialogue state so we have a
model that looks a bit like this which
is then
so you can see but importantly you have
a sentence level encoder down here but
the information about the context is
passed directly from sentence to
sentence so you have a much more direct
a more direct path from the previous
sentence to the next sentence and this
this was shown to work well although
it's very straightforward um so this is
a discourse level vme model so this was
actually made by people in this room so
I think this was a very nice very nice
model so the idea is that you want to
encode the entire previous dialogue
context as a waiting variable in the VA
e so the idea behind this is that it's
not just the previous things that you
said you have a topic of the dialogue
you have the general content of the
dialogue and you can model this as a
latent variable so here's the general
model I can explain them that you can
add are it's also taking in the dialogue
act why
sorry it's called the recognition
network here's the recognition and the
recognition network takes in takes in
the utterance the dialogue and then also
the context up in telling this point and
whether it was a person speaking or not
and you get the latent variable from
this and then you also have a prior
network that's only that doesn't have
your previous or next utterance it only
has a previous history and based on this
waiting variable you generate the output
utterance so it's a pretty it's a pretty
reasonable method for applying of the to
this but it also has a kind of
interesting trick in that they have a
bag of words loss here so the idea is
that you need to be able to directly
guess the words in the so why is this
good um one of the problems and VA e
based models is that you can get a very
strong language model on the top right
here so if you have a very strong
language model if you get just the few
the first few words correct then you
don't you can basically ignore the
weight variable but if you have to
predict the bag of words the entire bag
of words directly from the latent
variable the language model isn't useful
in predicting things there so you need
to make sure that you encode all the of
the information within the latent
variable as well and this helps prevent
kind of the degenerate solution that the
eastern tip um do you have any so if you
if you have any questions about this you
know good a medicine cool so this is all
this is what I have about about global
coherence are there any questions about
that yeah okay um so the next problem in
dialogue this actually might be even a
bigger problem than the global coherence
problem which is that dialogue allows
much more
read responses than something like
machine translation was so for
translation there is lexical variation
there's like different ways to say the
same thing but the content basically
needs to be the same you can't you can't
change the semantics of the utterance
otherwise you'll be in big trouble on
the other hand for dialogue the semantic
content will also be different so we
have an example of this so what are you
doing if you think about all the
possible answers to what are you doing
I'm teaching a lecture on neural
networks for NLP is what I'm doing right
now that's a pretty unlikely response
for most people in the world but it's
it's a valid response in this particular
situation so as a result you have a lot
many many different valid responses some
which only apply in some situations some
apply in many situations to do is they
tend to predict the majority class so
people some people in this class are
having the exact same problem in their
classifiers it's the majority class so
what are you doing
the answer that the dialogue system
gives is I don't know what is your name
so the idea the problem is basically you
know I don't know is a pretty good
response to a lot of different questions
so biased words things that are easy to
predict especially if it's something
that it hasn't seen in its training so
the way this paper proposes to fix this
problem is basically a diversity
promoting objective so the basic idea is
that we want a we want a response that
is likely given the context but it's not
mundane it's not
kind of a standard response that you can
use everywhere and there's a very easy
way that they use to that they used to
formulate this it looks like this so the
is the probability of the target given
the source and the thing on the right is
the log probability of the target
multiplied by some contents they use you
I'm actually not entirely sure why they
didn't use P here but they use you here
probability according to a language
model over all your possible responses
and the the idea here is if you do this
the second term penalize this thing like
I don't know that you can see in many
different contexts so as a result of
this Oh a so one thing I should mention
is this is done only a decoding time
it's not done at training time and it's
only it doesn't really have a good
theoretical interpretation from machine
learning from a machine learning
perspective it's just a nice heuristic
that they can use to capture their
intuition and as a result the report
from agent that's a good idea because
you did the right thing I've been
looking all over for you I actually
don't know if these are better I'm
losing my grip I'm the only one in the
world so I'm ready to help I have
something we need to talk about so you
can see in general they they tend to be
a little bit more varied I don't know if
they're a lot better but in some cases
they they are better in this at least
promotes diversity to some extent
another thing is diversity is a really
big problem for evaluation so diversity
is a problem for evaluation machine
translation as well but it's a much
bigger probability here much bigger
problem here so um
translation uses blue score and blue
score which i've talked about before
basically uses matches between you know
grams by grams trigrams four grams in a
reference translation and the
translation that you generated
translation for blue sky blue score is
not perfect for translation at either
but it it's kind of okay it kind of
tells you what at one system is better
than the other in dialogue blue shows
very little correlation so if you have
the answer that the person actually gave
and you use blue score to evaluate it
with the reference this is what it looks
like on the y-axis and there's basically
north no correlation between this
there's if you I bought it you can't
even see a trend they also use something
based on the average of word embeddings
so they they tried to kind of soften
softer than their their evaluation of
metric by saying things where the
average of word embeddings is in a
similar place in the space are probably
more similar so that would be a good
evaluation metric and that didn't work
either um then on the right side between
the two groups and you can see the
correlation is actually relatively
strong so what this tells you is
essentially that blue score is no good
but it's not hopeless humans do agree
with each other and how good
um so one early piece of work that did
this this is called the Delta blue
metric and they made two modifications
to blue to blue score to try to make it
work better with dialogue systems the
idea is basically they use an extremely
simple system to retrieve a whole bunch
of kind of good-looking responses so
basically I think maybe they used
leucine which is like this the search
engine type thing or something similar
to it and they retrieved a whole bunch
of reasonable looking responses and then
they had human evaluation so yeah these
spike responses on the bottom are one
set that were not from this particular
dialogue pair and then they had humans
evaluate these with a score normalized
between 1 and minus 1 where 1 is the
best response and -1 is the worst
response and then the oh whoops sorry I
thought I had the equation down there
but basically the idea is they measured
blue score but every time they counted
an Engram match if it matched with one
of the good responses they matched with
one of the bad responses they down way
too fat aground
so the idea is if you match things in
the good response that's a good thing if
you match things in the bad response
that's a bad thing and they were able to
show nonzero correlation with human
evaluation using this metric so this is
one way to create an evaluation metric
for dialogue um anyone want to use this
metric yes No
I I want to use this metric but I don't
want to make six human evaluations for
each response in my test so this is a
lot of this is a lot of work it's even
more work than just creating like five
five translation results for empty
because you have to get multiple
evaluations for each response etcetera
so this is this is pretty tough to
implement so there's been a couple of
thing of papers recently on learning to
evaluate dialogue systems so the idea is
that you actually train a model that
should give you better evaluation scores
than than the original Monday he has or
then blue then blue or something like
that so Bo at all they use the context
the true response in the actual response
to basically learn a regresar that
predicts how good the the important
thing here is this is very similar to
the dialogue model itself but instead of
only having access to the to the output
it also has to the input it also has
access to the reference so you you take
in you take in the true response you
also take in the model response and then
you have a regression model that
basically runs the representations
through a multi-layer perceptron and
predicts the evaluation so what this is
saying is given this context and given
that somebody actually responded this is
their true response and the model
responded this is its response what kind
of score should I give this so you're
learning to model a human evaluator I
guess and this this does this does
pretty well this does
quite well but similarly you still have
the problem where you need you need to
annotated training data in order to
train this so you still need something
like like this but the advantage of this
model is that you don't need it for
every test set that you want to run
after that so once you learn this model
you should be able to apply this
evaluation model to other test sets
another example of something that I
don't know whether I whether any trust
this is an evaluation measure or not but
I thought I should introduce it anyway
this is an adversarial evaluation which
is basically we train a model to try to
discriminate between true and model
responses and based on that model that
tries to discriminate between true
between true human responses and model
responses how often are you able to fool
this model so the idea is inspired by
basically adversarial networks so
adversarial networks you have a
discriminator you also have access to
the reference so this one has the
advantage that doesn't necessarily have
any correlation with human human
evaluation
um one caveat that I should say from my
experience with machine translation is
that when you learn an evaluation metric
there's two disadvantages to this one
disadvantage is it tends to over fit to
your training data so your evaluation
metric might look very good on the data
that you trained it on but it can be
very bad on other data that you used
another caveat is that this is really
hard to interpret it's really hard to
say why your model fought
this was a good response and maybe maybe
your dialogue response was actually good
or maybe your dialogue response was
horrible but it just fooled your model
into thinking into thinking it was a
good response so I really like this
direction because evaluation is very
difficult in dialogue models but I don't
think I don't know if this problem is
has been solved okay okay so this is
this is this is good this is not
necessarily a model of the generated
output it's a way of evaluating whether
your model has the ability to pick the
correct response out of incorrect ones
so um yeah I know about this work but I
forgot to put it on the slides but
basically um it can even be just two
choices you have one you have one
response that was randomly picked from
another place in the dialogue in one
response that is the correct response
and your model needs to basically do
binary classification over which one was
the correct one I guess this is kind of
like the motivation behind this is
similar to the motivation that Sam
Bowman talked about at when he was
introducing the NOI the natural language
inference task which is when you're
doing generation you have to think about
a lot of other things like your decoding
algorithm and other stuff like that but
if you just need to pick
dialogue response is the correct one
then it's just a classification problem
and you can worry on like modeling
worried about modeling context or
semantics or whatever is um do you know
the name of the paper okay eval okay
evaluating dialogue systems by
predicting the next utterance so if you
want to take a look at that you can find
out there um well I need anything else
okay so problem three dialogue agents
should have personality or more
importantly dialogue agents should have
consistency about the stuff they talk
about so if we train on all of our data
our agent will be a mishmash of mishmash
of personalities so we get where do you
live now I live in Los Angeles in what
city do you live now I live in Madrid in
which country deal with now England you
so none of these are consistent with
each other so this is a problem if you
want to make anything that people will
feel was plausible so yeah um so there's
some early work on this this is a manual
method in 2007 but the reason I
mentioned this is I feel this was really
well done this is a very very nice work
that I don't think anybody has
replicated something with this step in a
neural model yet but the idea is
basically you want to train the
generation system with controllable
knobs where each of those knobs is based
on a personality trait and one example
is extraversion so this is a system that
was created to basically recommend a
restaurant for you so given a structured
representation of the restaurant of the
dialog act which is like a recommend
restaurant you have a thing that can
generate different utterances based on
how extroverted they are an extraversion
if you if you don't
what this means it's how like how much
you like talking with other people um so
they came up with a whole bunch of
traits like how long is your sentence
how many positive words do you use how
many negative words do you use etc and a
lot of these traits are kind of
correlated with extraversion so if you
go to the least extroverted one or it
seems to me like well maurices isn't as
bad as the others so this is basically
bit not a very strong recommendation
right but it's it's saying it's not as
good
right I mean when Maurice it's the only
restaurant that it's any good uh that's
also not very positive and then if you
go all the way down to the bottom
basically actually I'm sure you would
like liveries features friendly service
and acceptable atmosphere in the French
kosher in steak house place even if the
price is $44 it actually has really good
food nice food so it's much more kind of
like you kind of feel like this person
is outgoing so um this is this is a good
method of the say of a system called a
percentage that they can use to control
these things um so one kind of
application to something similar in
neural dialogue is this persona based
neural dialogue model and the idea is
that you model each speaker in embedding
space um
so each speaker which means you can
create for each user so all of the
people all of the speakers I guess 78
speakers the interesting thing about
this is if things go really really well
you could
think that maybe these embedding
dimensions encode the various dimensions
of extroversion or or positivity or or
other things other personality traits as
well as you know where the person is
from or whatever I don't know if this
model does that or not but if you're
interested in in something I think this
is a good place to start and maybe
combining the previous two methods would
give you something interesting there
another interesting thing that's very
nice about this paper is that they
didn't just model the speaker they also
modeled who the speaker was talking to
and this is really good if you think
about a situation where like if you want
to talk to somebody who you want to be
polite to like a teacher or something
like that you will be more polite
whereas if you're talking to a family
member or somebody else like a friend
you don't necessarily need to be quite
as polite it might also help model
whether two people basically talk about
the same topics when they talk together
so if you talk the people in this class
I'm likely to be talking about neural
networks my wife I'm likely to be
talking about my daughter for example I
think there's a lot of a lot more work
that could be done in this area as well
so this is a nice paper can be okay any
any questions about these
okay so let me go let me go on to
retrieve all these models so retrieval
based models as I mentioned before are
based on the basic idea that many things
can be entered answered with basically
template responses template based
responses while there is a lot of
variability in dialogue a lot of the
things we say like I don't know are
repeated over and over and over again so
there's no need to generate them anew we
can just look them up in the database
simply find so you can simply find the
most relevant response um
has anyone used Gmail on your on your
phone and seeing these responses down
here
these have been about one year ago based
on a neural retrieval based model which
I'll talk about in a second um I think
these are awesome I'm so happy that they
added this feature because now what I'm
walking to work I can reply to like five
emails while I walk to work so so I
think this is great
this idea of retrieval based retrieval
based chats this actually goes back
fairways
before neural models the basic idea is
that given an utterance we want to find
the most similar uh pterence in the
database in return it um before neural
models they actually did some stuff that
was a little bit more sophisticated like
rewriting named entities so they would
rewrite the named entity into the named
entity symbol was in Korean hence the
Korean that's the Korean text but so
then you get where is Lok type and then
it will look up the it will look up the
original elements so basically you have
the the source utterance
original utterance that the speaker made
it will search the database for the
closest source utterance and then return
its target utterance like this so you
can look up where is local type in the
database it will address you know where
local type is and then it will respond
with the appropriate thing and it will
fill in the template with the
appropriate named entities etc um
there's also here they also use the
discourse history vector but this isn't
used in in many existing studies okay so
neural response retrieval this 2014 I
think this is actually the first time
people applied neural networks to chat
based dialogue I wrote on Twitter
somebody please prove me wrong and
nobody has proved me wrong yet so I'm
I'm waiting for somebody to come up with
an earlier one but anyway but the basic
idea is in regular example based dialog
in regular example based dialog you have
a lot of trouble because of superficial
differences between the source and the
target so like let me know where local
type is we'll get a we'll get a lower
score than please tell me the location
of local type because they don't share
very very many words together so
basically what we did was we applied a
sentence peer model specifically a
recursive auto encoder with dynamic
pooling if you remember all the way back
to our sentence representation our
sentence representation class recursive
auto encoder is thought encoder that
uses the parse tree structure and
dynamic pooling is a thing where you
decrease it to a you decrease a variable
size vector into it like a fixed size
matrix and then compare them together
and
this pure fridge model was was proposed
by Souter a doll in 2011 I mean the
interesting thing is if we get we can
get a very nice-looking kind of flat
lying down with some similarity matrix
which indicates a paraphrase and if we
don't if we don't get a black line it's
not a very good paraphrase and this oh
yeah that's the model and this basically
improved the robustness of our dialogue
response retrieval method so going back
to smart reply the smart reply method is
basically also a retrieval based method
um but they did a lot of very nice
engineering scientific or engineering
tricks I don't know which one to call
them but they did a bunch of nice tricks
to make it actually work on large scale
and work quickly it's very similar to
the response retrieval model that I
talked about before but now they're
using an LS TM sequence to sequence
model where basically the conditional
probability of the sequence to suit
against model is your retrieval square
um they're doing beam search over the
response space so here your response
space is the space of all responses in
your date in your database so if you
think about it what is the space of all
the responses and a normal sequence to
see this model this is not a trick
question
what's it the entire language exactly so
it's all the sentences in English what
they do here is basically instead of
doing all the sentences in the language
they women it's the only thing sitting
or included in the database and you can
actually come up with a nice I don't
know exactly how they implement it
because they don't mention it in their
paper but you can come up with a nice
try structure so if you think back to
your data your data sorry
think the structure is course you can
come up with a try the try so then you
just don't allow it to generate anything
that doesn't appear in your so this is a
much faster way to generate responses
from your corpus they also do a thing
related to canonicalization of syntactic
variants and clustering of similar
responses so if you have things that are
different syntactic different ways of
saying the same thing um well one thing
is I'm not giving a lot of details on
this slide but the paper also doesn't
give a lot of details about exactly how
they do things it's a paper at kdd not
an MLP conference so so the language
part is a little bit is a little bit but
basically the idea is if you have
multiple things that can be pronounced
that can be expressed the same way they
canonicalize them into a single single
way they also cluster similar responses
together using I think lexical measures
they also do a human curation of the
responses so at the very beginning of
the class really good if you want to be
safe probably Google doesn't want
dangerous things appearing on your cell
phone when you when you tried to do a
reply in Gmail so I think from what they
said in the paper it seems like they did
human cure
all of the responses so they they had
somebody check whether all of them were
okay or not um this is maybe the most
interesting part of the paper which is
that they enforce diversity responses
that looked similar to the other
responses that you've already generated
they also made both positive and
negative responses and the three ones
that you can say so if it's something
that's positive and you have a would you
be available for a meeting on Monday it
should have at least one response that's
positive and one is negative so you can
either say yes yes or no um so I think
this is a really interesting paper in
that it explains all the stuff that they
had to do to make this actually work and
then we can go back and come up with
beautiful methods that does it even
better so if you're interested in dialog
response generation I think this is a
good paper to read um any any questions
about that okay so I'm going to talk a
little bit about a about task-driven
dialogue um up until very recently there
weren't a whole lot of neural models for
kind of end to end test driven dialogue
but this is becoming more popular
nowadays but Chad is basically to keep
the user entertained to keep you you
know talking to it yes I mentioned
before but actually I realized I haven't
mentioned it all this time reinforcement
learning is very popular in dialogue and
basically the reward for reinforcement
learning and test completion dialogue is
whether you complete the task or not um
in chat based dialogue you can think of
it just as how long does the user talk
to you if they continue talking to you
then you're continuing to do a good job
so Champi style Uggie is a type of
test-driven dialogue but the task is
just to keep the person talking it's
very different what if we if we want to
actually
something like book of flight or excess
information from a database in this case
suddenly basically eliciting information
from the user and using that information
to do a final task becomes more
important and because of that a lot of
the test-driven dialog work focuses on
ways to do this in the recommended but
but not required reading materials
there's a nice discussion of frame based
dialog which is the same thing as what
I'm talking about here it's also called
slot filling dialogue etc so in semantic
frame based dialogue the the traditional
way to do this is to come up with
different components where each
component does a specific task one is
natural language understanding when
dialogue researchers say natural
language understanding or spoken
language understanding usually they
needs filling the slots in a frame so
filling up the things that the user has
talked about also dialogue state
tracking which is to keep track of the
overall dialogue state over multiple
turns dialogue control which decides the
next action based on the state and also
natural language generation which
decides what they actually say based on
the current state so at first there were
a lot of neural models that were
proposed for each of these tasks so
there's several papers on NLU for slot
filling with neural nets but I think
this was one of the first ones and one
of the more widely cited ones and
basically the idea here is you have a
neural network that is two tests one
test is Bao attempting one cast is so
show flights from Boston to New York
today it has named entity recognition
it also has slots identification slot
identification is a little bit like
semantic role labeling if
you know about semantic role labeling so
you identify given that the person is
trying to find a flight where is it
party from where this is arriving to and
what is the date and then there's also a
domain of airline travel which might
decide which app handles so if you have
if you have your smartphone and you say
show flights from Boston to New York
today actually sorry show flights from
Boston to New York today because it's
today it's $392 it's very likely that's
something like this is the interface is
doing them it's deciding which app
should be used to handle probably the
domain could be merged together if you
really wanted to slot filling will be
dependent on the on the intent I guess
this particular method used an RNN CRF
model I've already talked about that so
there's not really much more to say here
but this is something that you can do so
dialogue state tracking this becomes
very important for long dialogues it
also becomes very important for
dialogues where we might have
essentially errors in our understanding
of what the user said and one
example of this is when you have bad
speech recognition so basically what you
do is you track the belief about our
current frame filling states so I have
this small figure you you might also
notice the bus numbers here look
familiar yeah this is this is Pittsburgh
bus this is Pittsburgh bus created by
Microsoft Research in Seattle for some
reason well the reason is because Ellen
black in maxine Eskenazi made the let's
go corpus which is a very nice corpus
for dialogue so so now everybody creates
nice bus bus guides for pittsburgh the
user speeches 61c but for whatever
reason the speech recognition results is
not very good so it misheard it is 61 B
you know C and B are easy to mistake so
based on your speech recognition and
confidence and your based on your speech
recognition confidence and you're like I
don't you natural language understanding
confidence you get a distribution over
you get a distribution over your beliefs
about each of the slots that you have
and then based on this distribution you
decide what to say next so if you aren't
very sure about any of the responses and
you might confirm there's a result you
can gradually 61c yes so basically this
is framed as a problem of tracking your
beliefs over various states um and
there's something called the dialogue
state tracking challenge that
to do this it started out on this rather
simple
bus bus guide dialog and now it's moving
on to progressively more difficult
things with worse speech recognition
bigger spaces it's it's multiple
hypotheses another interesting thing it
does is it generalizes away by
abstracting away the details so it kind
of detects named entities and other
things and also inputs in abstracted
representation into the model the reason
why they did this was because they were
doing this in 2014 and trying to get
trying to get a model that works really
well I think now probably this is less
necessary and you can just use
distributed representations of some sort
also language generation from dialogue
state with neural networks this is
another thing I've actually talked about
this one time before in the natural
language generation or the conditional
language modeling part but basically
it's a it's an LS TM type of model where
the LSD on units or conditions then you
can put this in to you can put this into
a dialogue act cell that basically keeps
track of your dialogue x over multiple
time type steps so what I've shown here
is that you can basically implement all
of the components in this regular test
based dialogue pipeline using neural
networks and and this has been very
effective at improving these dialogue
systems and then recently there have
been some interesting papers I'm kind of
end-to-end dialogue control with four
test base dialogue with neural networks
and this was a nice paper from a seal
this year so
it's interesting in that it kind of
followed the traditional task-based
dialogue framework but it made it
end-to-end trainable so you get a bag of
words from utterance you have an
utterance embedding model you do entity
extraction you have an entity tracking
thing that keeps track of entities over
the entire dialogue and then you have
various features that you extract and
this gives you basically the input to
your rmn you could imagine that this is
you don't need any of these things
tracking is pretty important here
because you need to keep track of what
has been used so now you have four
vectors these vectors have put into your
RNN and then based on this you have a
you have an MLP plus a soft mass oh and
your arm then this continues from time
step to time step and then you have a
dense layer in the soft mass now the
most interesting thing here is that you
can either make an API call which is a
call to for example show me flights from
here to here or you can create another
utterance and both of these are decided
well these are decided in a single soft
mass so I think this is a pretty
interesting method and this is a when
you're deciding the utterance you're
deciding from templates so this is a
retrieval based approach when you're
doing when you're doing
based on that you choose your actions on
plates you also insert entities so if
you get something like city writes city
comma right then you insert that entity
the city empathy and this gives you a
fully formed actually if this is an
action this is an that you make the API
call and you get the result and you
display it to the user and then that API
call result is put back into your aura
net so this is it's a highly engineered
model I think because you need to hook
it up to all your api's you need to do
entity tracking and filling but the nice
thing about it is basically all your
interactions with your cell phone can be
modeled as one big rmn over like forever
which is great or creepy which way you
look at it there's an RNN somewhere
where my remembering everything you ever
said to your phone so another
interesting thing about this paper is so
they they indicated a bunch of different
utterances with with a kind of wizard of
Wizard of Oz results so they they went
back and did a thing where the human
controlled the dialogue but then after
that they have it updated with policy
gradient based reinforcement learning so
I think this is a really exciting
direction because now we can kind of mix
tasks based stuff check these stuff in a
single framework and actually make it do
you know not just chat with you but also
do useful things so um I guess that's
all we have for today are there any
questions yeah
um well you could um you could deploy
this to users and have the user use it
and then one standard there's ways you
can get reinforced reward you can
estimate the reward for task completion
dialog so one is like how quickly do you
finish your task if you're doing
something like displaying links thus the
user click on the link or do they
continue to go do something else
afterwards so you can come up with
rewards that are pretty good indicators
of whether you're doing a good job so
this could be continued anything else
any other like interesting directions in
dialog that I missed your if so I'll
finish up thanks a lot